
Among the great powers of the world, Al Ariel's greatest strength sets it apart from its competitors. Considered by many to be the strongest player on the world stage, the technocratic Federation of Al Ariel brings to the playing field the greatest scientists, merchants and spies on Tellirus. Governed by the Academy of Arielis, the fruits of this secular nation's labour is found across the globe.

Few have ever warred with Al Ariel, and those that have eventually lost. Though its capital, Greytower, has been captured numerous times in its history, occupations always resulted in the total downfall of the aggressor. Since this small island nation defeated the Seratane Empire six-hundred years ago, no great nation dared to infringe on the Federation's borders. Two years ago, however, the Komerian Empire captured Caris Erisburg - principal engineer of the Academy and developer of the Erisburg Rifle - an act which sparked war between the Komerians and the Ariels. In a pyrrhic victory, the Komerian Empire captured Greytower.

With their capital under occupation, the fiery spirit of the Ariels burns hotter than ever. Agents of the Federation, now spanning the continents of Paluria and Erolur, encircle the Komerian Empire in an invisible net of saboutage and subversion. The Ariels are cunning and quick, boasting the brightest scientists and most pragmatic tradesman anywhere in the world. It is easy to befriend an Ariel, but nigh-impossible to have one divulge his secrets. Many who try often wake up in the dark, or not at all.

The greatness of Al Ariel draws from the range of cultures which are attracted to the Federation's intricate society:
> Ariel: natives to the land of Arielis - pale-skinned and well-educated.
> Seranese: brown-skinned natives of the remnants of the Seratane Empire, once known for their distinct architecture.
> Duorian: dark-skinned seafarers and craftsmen from the Coruel du Ouros. 
> Talweish: natives of the Talwir Mountains and the Bay of Teeth
> Bassiri: dark-skinned natives of the city and province of Onbassir

